Recording started perfect.
So last time we talked about, you know,
the the tree model.
Let's just quickly review what we just
covered, right.
So then make sure we're on the same page.
So tree model,
we talk about classification and
regression trees.
So tree model As for model is quite I
would say straightforward.
The reason why I'm saying straightforward
is.
As you know,
we are using as a human being, right?
So then we use tree models.
Pretty much every single day.
How we make decisions for our lives and
how we make decisions for the business,
we actually utilize the tree model,
knowingly or not knowingly.
So what?
How we use a tree model,
we really use a tree model for two
purposes.
One is called classification.
We want to predict the yes or no or
category 123.
That kind of question.
Should we go forward with this business
plan?
Should we just?
Should we just? No, go,
go or no go decision making.
So those kind of the classification trees
we're building.
Regression trees.
We're rebuilding.
For example, hey,
we have several folks in the same level
and then they have a similar experience.
Should they have the same salary and the
salary has a continuous value?
In terms of dollars?
So then this is sort of like we are using
decision trees.
To judge by the the experience that
person have the degree that person has to
give a fair amount of dollars as a
payment to to the person, right?
So then there's one example that we are
building regression trees in finance.
So credit score,
you can consider this as a high, low,
medium kind of a class.
If that's the case.
We are really using classification model.
However,
we will really give a person credit score.
877 hundredish.
So those are really a regression model,
right?
So then we're also using it for
healthcare decision prediction.
I was in one project that we are we are
collecting a lot of data to predict
whether or not if there's any early
leading indicator of a different kind of
cancers.
Right,
so now you know some something happened
to your body and then you, you,
you you went to the hospital and.
And take some pictures and CT or or X-ray.
So then there are some different features
on the picture,
so then you can use machine learning to
identify if those are different.
Strange PCs can lead to some specific
disease and also like you can use machine
learning either classification,
regression to do the marketing,
for example the the customer segmentation.
So that's quite common to use emotional
learning on customer segmentation, right?
So then you can actually leverage the the
clustering analysis to sort of.
Partition your customer base into
different groups.
And and and that's sort of anecdotal
results of of different groups, right?
So then if you do have some data that
from your marketing team,
they know the customer who purchased.
Products are definitely high value
customers.
They, they,
they they purchase another amount of of
dollars and then that could be a low
value customer groups.
So then that's how you actually putting
the labels to those customers.
Once you have the labels associated
customers and you can actually build a
machine learning algorithm to learn the
patterns behind the data and how to
identify a customer,
a high value customer,
how you identify a custom.
A low value customer and then you can
design different marketing strategy based
upon the results.
Just to double check,
I'm sharing these slides.
Can you guys see it?
We can.
Yep, I can see.
Yep.
OK.
That is good. That's good.
Should have checked this before so then.
Usually people use this method quite
often in in e-commerce channel, right?
So quite common usage.
Is the lifetime value of of a customer
right?
So now you can.
You can view the classification model.
As Brady,
we actually had that kind of model and
then we actually I,
I I led A-Team build up.
So then based upon their first ever
purchase data, so who they are,
what they did,
what kind of product did they purchase
and how much money they spent on on
Brady's e-commerce channel, right.
So then so then you can actually learn
from that. You can you.
Can project it that information into a
two year worth kind of arrange you,
can you.
Can you can predict if some people?
Purchased.
Some subsid products and then they
definitely gonna keep purchasing.
One good example will be for example,
if some customers purchase some printers,
right?
So then likeli,
they will keep purchasing the cartridges
and paper associate with that to fit in
that printer, right?
So then and and if some person purchased
a a computer,
and then maybe that person will purchase
the monitors and then mouse and and the
keyboard, those kind of.
Product socialism.
So then, so really who your product?
Who your customer is and what they
purchased the first time.
First engagement.
And then how much money they just put on
the table?
Those are the good information and really
strong signal to tell the business
whether or not they will keep purchasing.
Right.
So then some data after that first ever
engagement.
So the customer satisfaction score,
how often they they visit your your your
website?
So those are the information you can
actually acquire with your marketing team
and then you can build different models.
Based upon that, those those information,
right?
So then you can actually leverage.
The large language models to send them
different personalized.
Personalized messages there could be
e-mail message.
It could be a text message.
Right now I don't see a lot of companies
really changing their their own.
Web page based upon this this
classification results but in the future
I guess it's doable you,
but you can definitely run some AP test.
To to to analyze the data you receive and
then.
To analyze their purchase pattern once
you leverage LLM to send the customer
personalized emails or text messages.
Based upon whether or not those customers
are high value group,
high value customers or low value
customers, right?
So then you can do a lot of things based
upon this customer segmentation.
More right.
So then I'm also in a group with my
friend Building 1 tool to to sort of
automatically analyze 10K10Q data,
and then hopefully we we we thought those
are really good signal to identify to
identify if some your target company are
invnding new products not.
Gonna drive the revenue?
In the market or or make make them so
different in the market, right?
So now we are seeing.
We are hoping to analyze those data and
those.
10K10Q report, right.
So then they also release a lot of
business risks.
So then so then that's some signal you
can analyze from different versions of
A10Q or different versions of 10K,
and whether or not there isn't any new
risk, that company will be facing,
the new risks usually is really an active
sign to their.
Near a stop price and then you can you
can quantify whether or not that
additional new risk is really driving
that enterprise value down.
And how much based upon you know the
marketing response.
So then those kind of information that
are pretty cool analysis,
you can definitely do.
And then and then you can just consider
you can build a class,
you know regression tree to analyze to
those kind of new risks and categorize
them and then to to to quantify the
impact to those companies, right.
So then,
so those are something that good ideas
that you can try in your final project.
I really received some teams sending me
in that OK.
Do you think this is a good,
reasonable idea?
So you know I my suggestion is yes,
I understand there are some LLM.
We were gonna be cover later.
But you know for LLM.
There is a lot of really good
applications that you can easily find
those codes online and if you wanna
leverage LLM so.
In your final projects you you if you
feel the LLM.
Llm is unnecessary piece of your final
projects.
I would say just use it and then I will
be more than happy.
You just sign me one one task and say hey
Eric just can you help me code that piece
for me.
I'm more than happy to do that.
And then you know, but you have to,
you know, subscribe your API.
But I'm more than happy to do that so I
can provide you some codes and you can
just copy paste and then plug in into
your. Your final projects is totally fine,
OK.
So card is basically short for
classification regression trees,
and then we definitely.
Look at like.
We took a look at one example, right?
So then,
so how size versus the house price, right?
So then we know the the formula behind
seeing how we generate the result.
Any questions?
And then we can easily build a first ever
decision tree.
It just as as easy as you split.
You split, Nathan. Any questions?
It's it's really as easy as you can just
split the entire space and you know house
size into bigger than 2500 square feet or
less than that so that you can tell those
those houses with house size more than
2500 square feet.
Or more expensive.
And then you can consider this the
average value of that sample pool.
As three $61,000.
But for the house is lower than or
smaller than 2500 square feet,
it has considered is a really
representing price is 280 K and then you
can use that as a reference price, right?
So then we can do that.
We can.
We can partition the entire space even
more,
and then we can have like this decision
tree,
we can have this decision tree and going
even further,
we build more and more trees, right?
So then we will build more and more trees.
We have better,
better understanding of of whatever
happened.
Right, so now you just like this?
So what you'll be facing is we.
We may be just overfeating our entire
data pool,
and then there's any new data coming in.
We are losing the power of prediction
prediction power to any new data.
So this is a risk of of having like more
complex tree meaning.
Uh, getting the depth of the tree. Uh,
higher and higher, right?
So,
but this is one good example of a
regression.
Tree and then we saw another example for
a classification tree.
So then we created this example.
The loan approval, right?
So then we say, hey,
we have two layer of information in
common that we set up a rule that if the
income bigger than 10,000,
we prove the loan.
If the income less than 10,000.
However more than 5000 and that is less
than 80%.
Of that, that person's income,
we also approve.
On. Otherwise, we're gonna denial.
So project data into these two D
dimension plane,
we can see those green and red dots.
So we can actually partition the data in
a way by the rule, right?
So then we are hoping that a decision
tree can learn and and and doing exactly
what human humans are are are defining
the rule right?
So then we we from our observation as a
human,
this is how we set up a rule because we.
Nowhere is 10,000.
Another one is 5004 thousand that so this
is a really the shadow area is how we
define a rule.
And then we start building a tree, right?
So then we build a simple tree and then
it's is is like this and we project to
this the same to the dimensions.
We found that we misclassified those
green dots.
We keep building another tree and getting
getting it more complex.
We we started misclassifying those red
dots and then we got a tree and more and
more complex. We found that OK.
Magic happened, right?
So then we just create some rule that
following exactly the same as the the
human rule,
so that we compare what the tree says is
literally like this and what the actual
rule was defined by Eric.
So then they are similar.
But for number per SE and they're not
quite similar.
But likewise.
So if you have more data the the 10,
100 and then it's 772 is getting more and
more close to.
That 10,
000 and 4000 threshold so definitely.
Confident on that.
So then we talk about, you know,
the decision tree,
how the decision tree works is we just
recursively splitting the tree into a a
binary tree.
We we were doing that.
So the question is there is there is a so
many number of ways that we can split the
data and then we can build the trees to
start with.
So what is the best way to to split a
tree?
What's the best threshold to split the
tree and what's the best metric column we
gonna use to split the data into a tree
for classification for regression?
So there are there are three criteria,
ones that Genie impurity.
Or or entropy.
So those are the two different method.
More highly likely they gonna derive the
same result for these classification tree
and and there's another one we can use
MSE.
The mean square error for for regression
tree.
Just,
just as a note for for mean squared error,
so that sometimes we use a mean squared
error,
so that is the difference between the
actual value and the prediction.
You have that difference.
You square it and then you sum it up and
divide by the total number of samples.
That's the mean squared error means right?
So then you know,
since the number of samples is a constant,
right?
So then say you have a 10 samples.
You calculate the square error across all
the 10 pairs of actuals versus
predictions.
You divide by 10.
You have 20 of actual numbers,
20 pairs of comparison.
You divide by 20,
so then 20 or 10 or or 100.
So that's a constant that.
Will be facing.
Uh, based upon a fixed.
Pool of data.
So then sometimes we just get we we just
ignore that number of samples.
We can even replace that by two.
I mean,
you see why we replace this with two.
But sometimes we just ignore that sample
size.
This is a constant here,
and a constant doesn't change anything,
right?
And the number different.
No times we have a root node.
Is the first ever node in a tree,
and then based upon this we made a first
ever split.
The leaf node.
Those are the basically terminals that
we're going to.
We're going to.
We're going to have some prediction value
from those nodes,
and somewhere any anywhere in between
those are decision nodes, right?
And then we we talk about the different
formula for those splitting criteria,
right?
So then Genie impurity,
entropy and mean square.
So we gave some example of say based upon
this example how we gonna.
Split this tree by credit rate.
So we we calculate genie impurity, right?
So then we can buy buy credit rate by
student.
So then we found out.
It seems like by student we have lower
Gen.
impurity value so then it shows to be in
terms to be a good decision or good tries
to speed the table.
And then we we tried entropy.
It is basically a different formula.
So then we have a we have same results.
For MSE,
the issue is we have a continuous input X
and then we have a continuous output draw
effectiveness.
Although they don't look like continuous.
The reason is how we just split.
In entire uh age into two, two area uh,
two sub intervals, right?
So then we try different MSE and then
that give us a better option.
How we do that?
So those are the materials we just
covered, right?
So then there are some other advantage of
using decision trees and there are some
disadvantages of using decision trees.
We know that decision tree.
Easy to interpret and then however really
are prone to overfilling.
We know that and we are talking also
talking about pruning and the
regularization right.
So then, pruning is how we make.
The tree last complex.
So then it's similar to say, hey,
how we regularize our tree, right?
We we we start with we we we go.
We went with the same example,
the House size and house price.
We've seen some really complex trees.
So then we have 3 trees and then and then.
If we really compare.
Their the summation of a square errors.
I you know, the more.
Leaves you go.
Likely the last error you have.
So then that the the chart is definitely
showing that. But as we mentioned,
it's definitely leading to.
Prone to overfilling.
So here is one example,
although we fully understand the training
data for the task data,
we are not there yet.
So the idea is we need to penalize the
complexity and we do have alpha as a
parameter to penalize it.
And then so the more complex your tree
goes, I will have.
I will add that to the your SSE to tell
you that maybe you're adding more complex.
So that we do not need that.
So then giving alpha equal to 0 alpha
equal to this number or or three times of
that number we.
Seeing totally different result and
totally different selection, right?
So then you say I I wanna penalize really
complex complex tree models and maybe you
wanna go to some simple models.
So that's sort of a process to of
regularization and pruning a tree. OK.
So that's pretty much what we covered in
the previous class. Any questions?
So we we sort of finish all their trees,
right?
So then,
so now I I have to make a comments, right?
So then just like we're in the, you know,
the human beings in funded.
Vehicles, right?
So then I believe at this moment we have
already covered scooters, right?
We already covered scooters.
We also covered, we also covered bicycles.
And we also cover some of the ski board
or anything like that.
So then those are done.
We are officially.
Entering more of the ones that vehicles
right.
So then we gonna talk about cars,
and then we're gonna talk about by seeing
cars.
I mean I I meant ensemble trees and and
then we gonna talk about the neural
networks.
That's gonna be more and more complex.
And then we gonna talk about we gonna we
gonna turn a newer networks into a
building break and talk about large
language models.
So then from this very point,
from this very moment,
the more models we gonna touch base on
will be much, much harder,
much much more difficult to interpret, OK.
Good news is the developers,
the Python developers,
already have those complex concept into
their code.
So that when you actually use those
models in your real life,
you just import a library.
And call that function and change your
parameters.
Boom, you already have the results.
You don't have to worry about what the
code behind the scene,
how they how they build those models.
You do not have to do that.
But in this class we gonna touch base
upon those algorithms and ideas behind
those models.
I hope you after this class you can tell
OK at least some highlights about one
specific model.
Why that model is better than another
model?
Because we will be talking about.
4 Ensemble Tree models today.
And one is based upon one article.
In 2016, I know you have,
you have been taking, you know,
I have taken some mathematics class.
We were talking about.
You know the the paper in 19th century in
in this machine learning area AI area we
are talking about all the paper published
last year.
Or or year later, two years ago.
Or sometimes we even have to talk about
the paper in this very year. For example,
if we talk about deep seg,
there's really some article in this year,
OK,
so that we are getting more and more
advanced.
We are.
We are getting more and more close to
what happened today,
so I'm afraid to say that we gonna talk
about more and more mathematics in this
class.
I will try to make it easier.
And the calculation is only to
demonstrate.
The idea behind those models I just want
to make clear there will be no homework
and no final exam or any exam testing you
to write a proof of those of those
algorithms.
There is no because this is not the
computer science class. OK,
so you you just.
Go with me and let's just have fun with
mathematics,
and then you gonna use how to use it.
You understand the, you know,
understand the difference between those
models.
That's it, right?
Although I just make it really as fancy.
Well, fancy with cold,
with a lot of mathematics.
Beef after this line.
So then, but don't be afraid.
Don't be scared.
Those are just some something that I put
some comments in blue.
That's sort of in plain English,
and you might count definition,
but otherwise in black those are really
definitions. If you want to skip,
you can skip all the formulas.
Just read whatever in blue.
Going forward, after this virus slide,
that's that'll be perfect for you to
understand those models if you want to
learn more,
try to do the math and I provide you
sufficient examples.
Hopefully you can redo the math and then
you you find oh, that's so easy.
And then that will be it.
And I promise you,
we're not going to use some really
advanced, you know,
mathematics like the partial differential
equations,
the stochastic differential equations,
those kind of things.
Only thing you need to know you need to
use is the derivatives or partial
derivatives. OK.
Anyone in this class?
Has has never taken.
College calculus.
About derivatives or partial derivatives,
do you guys need me to remind you the
derivatives and partial derivatives?
Yeah.
Yes.
Oh, OK. OK, good. OK.
So that means like I need to remind you,
right? So then.
OK, let me give you one example.
Let me just use the I just learned before
this class, OK.
So then let me try.
Can you guys see my whiteboard here?
Yep.
OK, right.
So the derivative.
Oh gosh, sorry.
And let me change your pant derivative,
right. So then deriv.
Dover.
So for example,
I have a function called F of X.
And then F of X = X.
So then or I can call it this function
equal to Y so then y = X right?
So then to calculate the derivative with
respect to XI will use a symbol like this.
DY over DX.
So given Y equals to X,
can someone tell me what is the
derivative of this X with respect to X
with respect to X?
1.
Yes, that will be one.
OK.
So if y = X and the derivative of this X
is actually one, right so then.
Ben, if I may ask you or Matt,
I if I may ask you what kind of role are
you using to have this result equal to 1?
There,
there's a role in in in college calculus.
What is that role's name?
I took this like eight years ago. Yeah.
Ten years ago.
OK.
So this is called power role.
Does it remind you anything?
Yeah, you.
Yeah, you take the.
Exponent of the variable and then move it
down in front and then the variables n, -,
1.
Sorry for my handwriting 'cause I have to
use this touch board.
So then this is a power rule, right?
So then the derivative of X to the north
equals the power.
Multiply X to the north -1.
OK.
It's called power rule. OK,
that's called power rule, OK.
So what about I have?
So that's why I have one here,
this X to the power of 1 based upon the
power rule.
So this equals one.
Multiply X to the 1 -, 1 where 1 -,
1 equal to 0,
and any number other than 0 to the power
of 0 equal to 1.
So then that's why it's.
Equals one. OK.
It's based upon the power rule, OK.
So what about Y equal 2X?
So what is a DUY over DX?
2.
Yeah, this too,
because that's basically 2.
Multiply the derivative of X with respect
to X.
We know it's a one.
So then there's actually 2 multiple ones.
So then, so just to show you that.
A XNA number multiply a function.
And the derivative of a number multiply
function equal to that number.
Multiply the derivative of that function,
OK.
So.
So that means this derivative function is
a linear is a linear function OK?
And how about we calculate?
1 -, X ^2.
And what is the D?
Y over DX.
And you volunteer.
Or we will be using another rule in your
college calculus.
I hope someone can tell me that as well.
Anyone.
OK.
Maybe this is a really a long time.
So then let me just tell you.
So this one called the chain rule.
Hopefully you guys do remember it right?
So chain rule.
So then what does mean is I will consider
this entire 1 -, X as as another variable,
call it Z, right?
Let's say if I were,
if I were solving Y equal y = Z square,
right?
So then DY over DX is actually dy over dz.
Multiply DZ over DX.
Where DY over DZ is the derivative of
this Z square with respect to Z and that
is by the power rule that is 2Z.
And DZ over DX.
So what is the derivative of 1 -, X?
With respect to X.
So the derivative of a constant equal to
0,
so derivative of X is -1 so that this 1 =
-, 2 Z, which equals -2 one minus Z 1 -,
X.
So this is called chain rule.
OK.
Any questions so far?
OK.
And now let's talk about partial
derivative.
So partial derivative is like this.
So that you have a function X&Y.
Where this one equal to, let's say X + y.
I wanna know, OK,
that the symbol of this is a little bit
different.
Instead of using this kind of ad,
I'll be using a different version kind of
D as a kind of curved D.
So what is a DF over?
DX.
So for partial derivative I have two
variables X&Y.
So then I will be taking the derivative
of the function F with respect to one of
those two variables which is X.
In this formula I will be considering the
other variable as a constant.
So then, so then if I'm taking DF.
DX so taking the derivative of this one
with respect to X.
Is no different to taking a derivative of
X + 1 X plus One X + y for X is the same.
So then you know the derivative of X1
with respect to X is just one.
So then the partial derivative of this X
+ y is just one.
If I change a little bit right?
SO2X, however,
partial derivative of XF with respect to
Y.
I will do exactly the opposite.
I will consider X as as a constant and Y
as.
As as a variable, right?
So then the partial F divided by partial
Y.
So I will have the result equal to two
not not one because I have two Y.
So this basically the rule of the partial
derivatives and partial derivative could
be more complex,
but I think this is good enough for you
guys to to to know to to continue the
class. So just highlight.
Two things. Power rule.
Definitely something we gonna use and
chain rule.
Definitely something we gonna use.
And a partial.
So those are the things that we
definitely gonna use in this class going
forward. And then that's quite important.
But they're not hard. You go back to your.
College I I do not know.
Like the market system,
but definitely you can.
You can find books, the college,
college calculus, and definitely you.
You'll be.
You can learn it.
No, no, no big deal. OK. So those, those,
those three things.
Any questions?
Is that too complicated or just OK
complicated?
Starting to get a little complicated.
Just haven't done in a while.
Oh, OK, OK, OK. But you know,
with some exercises, you, you,
you certainly look,
you can pick up your memory, right?
So then those definitely.
You, you you have learned and market,
you have learned it at different
universities to definitely cover those
those derivative rules, right. OK.
Let's continue, OK?
So power rule, change rule and partial K.
Right. Let me go back to my slide.
Hey.
So we're not directly gonna use that,
just a kind reminder that we will be
using some of this, OK.
So we we talk about the tree models and
then let's say we have this data.
How many rows do we have?
We have 12345678910.
We have 10 rows of data.
We want to learn about.
How?
How size number bedrooms and the year
built?
Are affecting the house price.
I mean, just this open-ended question.
What should we do?
What kind of model should we build?
I mean,
you can talk about any models we have
built before.
So this is our those are our target.
How what kind of model can we build to to
learn how the other three affecting the.
The this. Yeah, I see.
And you,
you can just say you you don't have to
type everyone.
So yeah, I wrote that linear regression.
You could use linear regressions to learn
about how the target variable the house
prices is impacted by house size,
number of bedrooms or your build.
Perfect. Any other ideas?
This is a review we are.
We're not talking about anything new.
Any other things and any other idea?
Could also use K NN.
Yes, we can use KN.
Any other ideas?
We can use a regression tree for sure.
OK, among those three ideas.
So, Haroon,
you mentioned linear regression.
You mentioned this KNN,
but do you think we have only sample N
equal to 10?
Do you think we have a big amount of data
to either train our linear regression
model or km model?
Only based upon 10 samples.
I would say no for KNN.
Yeah, I agree with you.
I I totally agree with you.
For linear regression, maybe not either.
This is only 10, only 10 samples.
Any idea that we can create more samples
for us for any algorithm to learn based
upon only 10 samples that we collected?
You can make predictions out of these ten
and then use other methods.
For sure.
But but that means like if you consider
are you suggesting I use,
let's say eight of them as train and two
of them as tasks and then use other
method to fix it?
Yep.
OK.
That's a good idea, but you know,
instead of learning from 10,
you're learning from 8:00.
Yeah.
So you're actually losing some
information in in your model.
That's a good idea.
I mean, we can do tree and task.
The issue of training task speed is we
are losing some information but you can
use fivefold.
But still for any training model you are
losing that information.
Any other suggestions?
The idea is, you know, out of 10, right?
So then you know what?
Can we do random selection?
So then let me just you know select this
select this,
select this and then select this and then
randomly select them.
Some of them are going to repeat,
but I'm going to recreate this,
this this data set into like one or two
or three of them so each.
Of them have have three have 10 samples,
although they have,
they have different complete.
But I have more data.
Sort of.
More data to use and this is the idea
that is called bootstrapping.
So bootstrapping is something we're gonna
talk about today is one idea.
You can create a new data set by randomly
selecting data points from the original 1.
So then you can sort of making new data
sets and then you can learn from it,
right?
So then every single boostraving sample,
they have the same size as before as the
original one. You you start with.
But and then also they may have some
repeated points, but.
The issue the the good news is you can
create a list of data sets and learn from
right.
So what we can do?
Let's see an example.
So we start with the original data that
we have seen. There's only 10.
Samples.
We do the first round of random selection.
We have the first data set.
As you can see this one and this one are
are, are are duplicate right?
So then the same.
Same here.
So then we select this same record three
times.
So then and for this one we have select
this 21262 times.
I believe there are and also this this
20952 times for this one.
This is definitely duplicates and
duplicates.
We have other duplicates so that we can
create not not only three we can create
like four or five of them.
So let's say we have we we we converted
the one data set.
Into 3 datasets.
We can also do the tricks like the linear
regression.
The KNN.
It's a little bit tricky.
I will say no because they still the the
sample size still.
The sample size still 10.
But for regression tree this is perfect.
I can build a regression tree on top of
this data set.
I can build a regression tree on top of
this data set.
I can build a regression tree on top of
this data set.
So knowing that for let's call it,
is at a right knowing for data set AI
have.
22 and these are 2294 square feet.
Record showed up three times.
Arguably this data,
this regression tree gonna be really
accurate for this record.
So this regression tree gonna be our
expert predicting the the house size
close to 2294 square feet and four
bedrooms.
And it during the year 2012.
So this is our asper in that area and
these regression tree gonna be our expert
in predicting this.
Umm this house size close to 2100 square
feet and this gonna be our expert
predicting bigger house size for example
like 2638 square.
Feet. So we have three sort of different.
Expert and we can even doing this
bootstrapping.
So now I'm bootstrapping this process
even further.
We have another seven of data sets and
then we are employing different
regression tree on top of those data sets
like this.
So for data set one we build a tree on
top of it looks like this.
For data set two,
we build a tree on top of this we have a
tree like this.
For this one, we have a tree like this.
So then the final.
Rocess is we have.
We start with A1.
We start with A1 data set.
We're doing a bootstrapping and
converting one data set into three like
this.
And then we build.
For each data set through that
bootstrapping process one tree.
So then.
Instead of having one tree solving entire
data set with 10 records,
we have three data sets.
We have 3 trees on top of three data sets
and total 30 records.
So we have a tree,
First Tree 2nd and tree the third.
So that's why we are saying we are
building a forest.
A group of trees, right?
We are building a group of trees.
Just because these bootstrapping.
There are some random selection
randomness involved so that those records
are randomly selected.
So that's why we call this kind of method
random forest.
Right.
Random representing to the moment you're
you're creating different data sets based
upon one original data set through random
selection,
and forest is really meaning a group.
Of trees built upon each data set created
through this bootstrapping process. OK.
So this is called random forest.
You have this.
You have this random.
Those are trees,
which is the forest in case we have a new
prediction data coming in.
We are predicting how size equal to this
number of bedrooms equal to this and the
year built equal to 2021. OK.
How do I do that?
We gonna have a prediction from the first
ever tree.
We have the prediction from the second
tree.
We have the prediction from the third
tree.
OK, so different trees, like what?
I said are coming from different aspect.
The first tree is an asper predicting any
house size around 2294 square feet.
The second tree are the expert predicting
a good at predicting.
The house size close to 2100 square feet.
The third tree is so good I had
predicting big houses.
I have 3 experts and they gave me 3 ideas.
The first idea is really predicting some
middle size classes, that's why.
Expert prediction of the house and that's
that prediction of the house and this one.
So if because this House size two 2600 is
a really big house.
I will trust this one more,
but you know I have to take care of a
different opinion.
So then the final prediction could be
just an average of those 3 numbers.
So I do not have anybody.
I listen to all the expert and then their
their, their,
their their average is my my prediction.
So random Forest is working in this way.
It's as simple as this.
OK.
I I'm pretty sure you guys heard,
heard about, you know,
heard of the random forest.
But Random forest is nothing more than
just building.
So many data set through random selection.
Tree based upon each one, each data set,
and then you bunch it AU.
Just summarize or aggregate the final
prediction.
That's how random 4 is working.
And the eventual this process that we
have prediction coming from each tree and
then how we aggregate them,
it's called bagging, right?
So then you have multiple data sets you
train.
Multiple decision trees.
You make prediction by averaging them, OK?
So then you're just basically aggregating
all the final predictions,
and this is called packing and and it's.
So this is basically the idea behind the
random forest.
I hope that's easy.
This is the first ever ensemble tree
model we are talking about random forest
and some articles are really talking
about you know why random forest is
better.
Then.
Then the single decision tree.
Right.
So then if you were talking about this
the miscalculation error,
a single decision tree,
this is a single decision tree.
Miscalculation error and this is the
random forest and and it's definitely
better.
So significant decrease of a
misclassification.
OK.
And then I think we're, we're done for,
for, for random forest.
I hope this is easy.
We didn't use any calculus.
We just basically using some simple idea.
We create some.
Data based upon the data that we we
originally have and then we just enrich
our data set, we we build the forest,
we aggregate the result.
That's how we have the final final
results. Hopefully that's not our.
Any questions?
There is no question, OK.
Let me just show you the codes that could
do this random forest for us.
Let me restart this call space.
To share my screen.
So that you can see it.
Maybe. Sure.
So those are tree models,
and then we've seen.
This is the one example we've seen as
well.
Yeah,
this is one example we have seen as well.
Yeah. So.
So this.
Piece of code we're showing like how
bootstrapping is is is working right.
So then we're still using the same data,
generating the same data set.
How size number bedrooms and year view
then and house price.
You can find these piece of code before.
So I'm using the same data set right so
then.
I'm really I do want to create 33 data
set from randomly selecting from this
original data set.
So I said I need 3 samples.
So then I create.
Three samples from bootstrapping doing
this way.
OK,
so then I can actually see those samples,
so.
0.
This is the original data set that looks
like this through the bootstrapping.
I have this data set,
one data set two and data set 3.
The one,
the ones that I show in the slides, OK.
The next step is I just need to.
I can really build a random forest
regressor and then that is something
you'll be doing is you do not have to
recreate those bootstrapping samples.
You can simply call.
Random Forest regressor and that's it.
And until the number of features and the
Max features and these kind of parameters,
that's it.
But what I'm trying to show is I am doing
this on single X.
Train.
So then I want to show you what's the
single decision tree, the tree,
one tree two and Tree 3 gonna look like.
Right, so I want to show that.
In in here.
I want to show you the individual tree
prediction from each of them from each
tree.
So this one is.
A simple a single decision tree as
complex as that.
But if you just doing this simple trees,
those are easier trees and then I can
provide a prediction for tree one tree
two and Tree 3 based upon some data I
just plug in.
The bagging is just basically I have the
predictions from different trees.
I just average them.
So as simple as a mean function,
I average them.
That's my final prediction, right?
And then I'm just showing you guys.
What?
How good or bad those those decision
trees are the single tree?
Is, is, is is this MSE the run before?
Is is this but for this very example,
that single tree is better,
but you know if we reach the number of.
Samples.
Right. So then you can definitely show.
You can definitely see a much better
results.
That's it.
So so.
The the random forest is quite easy to
interpret.
OK. Any any question about random forest?
Hopefully it's not hard to to digest.
I'm bagging.
OK.
I will say that's let's take a 15 minute
break because when we come back,
we're going to talk about boosting,
which is in my opinion a little bit more
complex than the the random forest.
So then we we gonna have some real fun in
boosting, OK?
So I'll see you guys around 6:45 and then
we we were talking about.
Boosting will be like this.
OK.
Sounds good.
Alright.
All right,
let's get the second-half of the class
started, right, so.
We're really talking about the ensemble
method, right?
So then we have two major pieces of it.
One is bagging.
That is basically bootstrapping bootstrap
aggregation.
We have the original data.
We run and we select a subset of the data.
And we allow duplicator duplicate the
data in the new data set.
We can create a number of copies.
Definitely more than one.
And then we build a tree.
Or or different independent classifiers
called independent classifier.
But it's really we're building different
trees on the different data and then
eventually we aggregate data together.
That's call bagging.
Right.
So then we just create something for
ourselves.
So that's that's sort of idea behind
backing.
Sorry,
but boosting is totally different idea,
so boosting is will be relying on will be
rely on some weak classifier or weak
regressors.
Basically very simple trees.
We hope to make use of those,
at least of a simple trees based upon the
same set of data.
So we are not dealing,
we are not doing anything around the data.
They're building trees.
We're going to build a list of trees and
then we can hope that the list of trees
based upon the same data can help us.
Uh. With different insights.
So then we can learn from the different
trees, and then we can have accurate,
more accurate, more accurate prediction.
So backing is more data.
We're creating more data.
And and boosting is we're creating
multiple we classifier meaning we are
creating more trees.
Uh, more different.
Uh. Simple trees? Umm.
So the first example we'll be seeing is
called ADA Boost.
So Adopost is really the name of ADA.
Boost is coming from additive adaptive
adaptive boosting.
So that's the idea.
And then here is the steps of this ADA
boost algorithm.
So it looks like really difficult,
I will say, but we'll go step stepwise.
You know,
you'll see it is not actually very
difficult and then?
A lot of I would say once I read those
computer science or machine learning
articles right?
So then they always gonna give you a lot
of really fancy.
Formula like this,
but they're really not though as fancy.
So then you just need to go stepwise.
You understand what this tree is building
and and then after you you figured out
what each step is doing,
you figured out the idea how they
invented this kind of structure.
OK.
So now let's just I'm not going to read
those.
Step 1234.
Here and then we gonna go through every
single step and then hopefully I give you
some examples.
You you eventually feel that Adaboost is
so easy concept, right?
That's true.
Actually go from.
Let's this for this one.
That's just for raid.
This one.
Sorry,
I just this this one we we could actually
go through this so.
The first step to initialize wait so it
is sort of like.
A democracy, right?
So then in a democracy,
we are giving every single record.
A equal weight.
Right.
So no one left behind and no one is above
the law.
So then every single record say you have
10 record.
I will consider every single one has a
tenth of the weight.
So everyone has the same weight.
OK.
So that's our starting point.
Everyone is equal.
And then and #2 starting Step 2 is we
gonna liter rate for trees what we are
going to do is?
We're we're going to build a super simple
tree.
That is called stump.
That's a really a tree.
With only.
A1 condition and a yes or no and they
have a prediction so-called stump right?
So then we only build a super simple tree.
A stump.
And then we will have some classification
result.
And by the way,
this add boost is only for classification.
So that that's why we are only talking
about classification.
So then that stomp gonna give you.
Some results.
And and then you will calculate.
You will calculate OK whether or not.
That storm is more right or more.
More correct or more incorrect?
Right. So then you calculate an error.
You can ignore how this one is defined.
You can just say OK.
I'm just going to calculate the error of
that that stump that simple tree.
So they say the error is 50% or say the
error is only 20%.
That means,
like the prediction is pretty accurate.
OK.
So then I will calculate the one thing
called amount of say you can just
remember this,
you can just remember of this number.
The concept of this is amount of say.
What does Amanda say mean?
So it is really coming from the idea that
if I know one person.
That usually is an expert in one area.
Then that person usually give you the
correct opinions that you know opinions
turns to be proven right in the future.
So I will trust that tree more than a
random person on the street, right?
So the idea is idea is I I I I build a
tree.
I build a storm.
I tasked it how accurate that storm is or
I I I I tasked it how accurate that tree
model is. So then based upon.
That model's error.
Are you gonna give that model a different
weight?
The model may have a higher weight if
that model is usually give me the correct
correct prediction.
However,
if that model always give me wrong.
Prediction. I will keep that model.
A lower weight,
so then you will have a model.
One will have Model 2 and Model 3 and
Model 4 and Model 5.
Right.
So then I will test the accuracy of Model
1.
Say accuracy is good accuracy.
It's good so that I'll give this guy a
great weight.
Accuracy is not so not so good.
I will give this client not as big a
weight.
So then I I have.
I have a different so eventually
different models or different trees will
have a different weight and a weight to
the end.
How we how I'm going to use this amount
of say.
But this,
this this let's have the first ever tree.
I calculate the first ever trees error
rate and then say that tree is doing a
good job.
I can assign a big amount of say to that
first ever tree.
The next step is I that first our tree
gonna still make some mistakes or
misclassification meaning because it is
predict something wrong.
I want the second guy coming into this
place to help me correct the first guy's
misclassification.
The work I will ask the second guy or
second tree to do is I want the second
tree to focus.
The the result the wrong result more than
right result, right?
So then I have some misclassifications.
I have some correct classifications.
I want a second tree coming here to tell
me to help me with those wrong
predictions or wrong classifications.
So then I'll give the wrong
classification more weight.
To come to the second guy's work,
then the correct predictions.
So that's why we're doing some magic here
and to reassign a wait.
So now,
not every single person or every single
role will have the same weight.
They have different weight.
The wrong predictions will have higher
weight.
The correct predictions will have lower
weight because they already have the
correct answer.
I want the second guy focus on the wrong
predictions from the first guy and then I
want the third guy focus on the second
guys.
Wrong prediction.
I want the fourth guy to focus on the
third guys.
Wrong predictions.
And that's how we run this iteration, OK.
So the idea is we start from.
Equally equally weighted.
Data set.
I hire a new person coming here and OK,
uh,
build your model and that person gonna
make some good results and some miss uh,
some wrong results.
I want the second guy to focus on the
wrong result from the first guy when the
third guy focus on the wrong result from
the second guy and keep going right?
So then I will judge each.
Guy's accuracy accuracy rate, right?
So the accuracy result if the first guy's
accuracy is pretty good.
OK, that guy has a mount of, say,
higher than the second guy considering
assuming the second guy has a lower
accuracy.
So then I will eventually hire the best
people to help me make the decision in
the end,
and they have a higher amount of say and
it usually means make you know,
the folks are making like a mistake
prediction.
They will have a lower amount of say that.
How it works?
OK.
Hopefully it's it's not super hard
concept for you guys.
Do any any question yes.
So yeah,
do you final your final prediction is
just your last tree you make.
Then 'cause that'll hopefully be the best
one, no?
No, no, no,
because the the last one is only
correcting the guy before the last one,
not necessarily the last one will be the
best guy,
but I eventually have all the guys coming
together and then since they have a
different amount of say they gonna tell
me.
Their prediction based upon a new case
and and I I gonna group them together a
group them separately into different
groups and one says OK we should be doing
this. Another group says.
We should not be doing this,
but the guys in we should be doing this
group they if those guys have higher
amount of say I gonna trust those guys.
I will show you one example hopefully and
you know you understand, OK.
Oh, OK.
I'll show you one example.
OK.
Any other questions before we move to to
examples?
OK.
Maybe example should help.
This error rate versus amount of say
right?
So now you have a higher you have higher
error rate,
you have a lower amount of say.
Because.
You're you're proving you're giving wrong
predictions before, right?
And the amount say in here is also called
alpha. OK.
Let's start with this example.
So now we are applying to predict.
A default action from those guys.
And we have the age.
We have the income of those people and
then we have a one or zero,
whether or not their their student.
We have a credit rate, whether.
Whether they're higher than threshold or
lower than threshold, and then it just,
you know, just wanted to make, you know,
one associate with default equal to ones
because one means they're defaulting.
So then usually people default or default
their debt or default their credit card.
They are relatively lower.
Quite a rate.
So then there is a there is a strange
definition.
That is when when credit rate equal to
one,
that means they are actually lower than
threshold,
meaning they have more risk to to default
and who the guys with zero credit rate.
So then they are they are they are
actually higher than threshold that means
they have a.
Lower risk to default.
So then this is really counter intuitive,
but these you know how I define this.
Right.
So then that means like A1 when you have
A1 incorreed and then that person may
default easier may have a higher
probability to default.
So now I just wanna have this one and 0
positively correlated with this default
fact, right?
So the first step is since I have 10
records 1212345678910, I have 10 records.
So the first ever ever step I gonna
assign.
The same way to each record,
so 1 / 10 one over 10.
I have 1 / 10 OK.
So then I/O will build a first stump.
It's really a tree like this.
You have a yes or no.
You have two leaves. That's it.
There's a very simple tree, so I will say,
OK, income less than 90,000 if this a yes,
I will say those are the guys will
default if this is a null.
And those are the guys will not default,
meaning I am believing in if you there's
a one guy,
if one guy in joining a higher income,
that guy will not default.
That's basically the idea of building
this tree.
Makes sense, not makes sense.
I do not know,
but I see how good this decision tree is.
So if one person has income lower than 90,
000, OK, this guy is lower than 90,000.
This guy default.
This guy lower than 90,000.
This guy default.
This guy lower than 90,000.
This guy also default this guy lower than
90,000, but this guy didn't default.
And this guy, lower 90,000,
this guy default. I'm correct.
Four out of five times.
Right, so I'm correct.
Four out of five times.
And I'm saying the, the, the,
the folks earn more than 90,000,
they're not going to default.
Well,
I'm wrong here because this guy earned
more than 90,
000 this ID about this guy didn't default.
I'm sorry.
This guy didn't default,
which is as expected.
I'm correct?
I'm correct here because I say this is
the guy who earned money. More than 90,
000 will not default.
And then this guy earned more than 90,
000 and didn't default.
I'm correct here?
I am correct here?
I'm not correct here.
I am correct here?
I am not correct here.
OK.
So now I'm correct three times.
Three out of five.
So this is my first ever decision tree.
Where did I do something wrong?
Right. So then we did this record wrong.
Remember this one 94,820?
I did this record wrong 30,
769 and I did this record wrong 94,925.
My first tree.
Has all seven cracked prediction and
three of them were wrong.
OK.
All those seven are correct.
All those three are wrong.
So then my.
Weighted error is.
This wrong versus one out of 10 weight
this wrong worth it.
One of ten rate this wrong versus one of
ten rate.
So then my weighted error is this .3.
OK,
amount of say I am going to plug in this
point of three into the formula.
Into this super complex formula and I
just plug in .
3 here I have this amount of say meaning
I have 30% of error and then I have
slightly higher than 30% of amount of say
OK.
I will keep this number in my memory and
I know the first tree 30% wrong and the
fortyttwo percent amount of say OK.
Now.
What I will be doing is.
For the second guy to come into this
project,
I want the second guy to focus on this
record this record and this record.
If the second guy can crack those 3
records and give me right answer, OK,
I think I'm getting there right?
I'm getting to a perfect answer,
so then I will.
I will plug in a the this amount of say
into the formula in this update
observation weights you do.
You can remember this formula.
You don't have to remember this formula.
What this formula is really telling you
is.
For the right predictions for those right
ones.
A new weight will be much smaller than
110, so right now it's only 6.54%,
but for the wrong ones.
I'm going to increase the weight because
I want the second guy coming in here.
Focus on those wrong predictions.
So for those guys,
it will be 15% of weight.
I have 50% increase from 10%, right?
And then and then one issue you'll find
is you add up those weight together.
They do not equal to 1.
So that you have to renormalize it.
Then renormalization is your original way,
divided by the summation of those total
way.
And then eventually it re normalize the
way of those right answers are 7% per SE
and for those wrong answers are 17% OK.
So now I have totally different weight to
the right answers.
And wrong answers from the first ever
tree.
Or first ever guy we hired, OK.
So the next time is a little bit tricky
and the next step is I how I'm going to
use this weight to create some data for
the for the second guy to learn is this
is really a computer science technique.
I create a data range so this number.
I gonna go from zero to this number and
this number gonna from the end of this
interval to plus this with.
So eventually you're seeing this is one
time of 7% and 2 * 3 * 4 times.
Five times and then I'll be adding this
number.
I'll be adding this number to here to
make this interval larger.
I you eventually this this range data
range kinda from zero to 1.
I mean this is rounding error for for
sure,
but when you see when you but as you can
see whenever we have a bigger weight here,
this data range is a little bit wider
than the original right answers because
the right answers you have the the width
of.
This sub interval .07.
But for the wrong answers, the with.
Of this data range is really .1667.
So that's wide.
So then I will ask the computer to
generate a random number, let's say .5.
From this data range, you know .
5 lives in here.
It's definitely bigger than .
357 and lower than .5 to 37.
So then this data,
this very role got selected for the input
data.
And it goes like it to the input data for
the second guy.
Let's say if I generate .
7 which guy which which record will be
select?
If we generate a random numbers point 7.
7 is is here and bigger than .
6904 and less than .7618?
So this record got selected to create an
input data for the second tree.
Why are we doing this?
The reason is you can regenerate any
number from zero to 1.
But we have higher width of those data
range for the wrong answers.
That means the wrong predictions have a
higher chance to be selected in the new
data set.
We're still doing random selection here,
but just because we are putting more
weight on the wrong answers so they have
a higher chance to be selected.
O then after this rogress or this
selection,
the new data set going to look like this
we selected this.
And this and this three times from this
random number generation and we select
this and this two times and we also
select this guy and this guy twice and
this guy and this guy.
So this 94820,
that is the one we generated wrong
prediction.
Right.
So then we actually selected three times
through the random number selection.
What we're going to do is still now we
have a new data set.
We have three of them representing the
same wrong prediction.
We still gonna assign everyone the equal
weight, but you have to know in your mind.
They are not actually equal.
Yes,
we have 10 rows of data and each row of
data has the same weight as the other row.
However,
there are three rows of data representing
the same record.
That means that record has 30% of a
weight compared to the other record.
So then we are really focusing on that
wrong answer from the first guy and for
the second guy to learn.
OK.
So the second guy will definitely do this
guy, right?
And hopefully if that guy didn't get
everything right and something still
wrong, then we can go from there.
So the second guy gonna predict this and
then got something right and something
wrong.
And then we gonna calculate the amount of
save for the second guy and put a
different weight on the right and wrong
answers and then create input data for
the third guy. So event.
Let's say we have 5 trees, right?
The five trees.
And First Tree is definitely the one
we've shown.
The second tree is based upon the data
coming from the first tree and the third
tree is tree based upon the data coming
from the second tree.
Focus on the wrong predictions from
Second Tree and 4th Tree is a focus on
the wrong prediction from the Third Tree
and 5th tree is focused on the wrong
prediction from the 5th tree.
That's exactly the case.
Matt, you're talking about, right?
So now for each tree we have a month of
say.
Let's say those are the guys.
Those are the guys predicting a new case,
not person will not default.
And those are the guys predicting,
predicting a new case coming in.
That person will default.
So from a tree number per say,
I have 3 versus 2,
but that's not fair because some of the
trees are more accurate.
Some of the trees are less accurate.
So then I will be using this amount of
say to judge.
1.
5208 amount of say saying that that
person will default.
And only less than 50% of amount of say
saying that that person will default will
not default.
So then I will be trusting.
I will be trusting this group then that
group because this group are this group
consisting of.
Trees that are usually more accurate than
the other group of trees.
And and that is how eventually you'll be
using the trees that that you have.
You may have 5 trees.
You may have 10 trees,
but eventually you have a summation
amount say and not going to tell you.
Your final decision, Matt,
did I answer your question?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
More clear now is one question.
OK.
Is every tree using the same rule?
Yeah, error trees are using the same rule.
OK.
Yeah,
error tree is using same rule and then
every tree is really like a yes or no.
And and yes, no, will be like yes,
default no do not default.
That kind of really,
really easy trees stumps.
Any any questions?
Add a.
Add a boost.
Wait one more.
How do you choose if it's targeting the
yes or the no?
Oh, you can just assign that.
OK, OK.
It's you can say yes, will.
Not default, no will default.
That's totally fine.
OK.
You just define the role and then and
then the code will just.
There are some default values that if me
this condition will be yes or me this
condition we know this is how we define
the one or zeros and then by those
definition you can control yes with yes
default or yes not default those kind of
those kind of.
So really,
based upon your your definition of one or
zeros.
Any any questions?
So if if there's no question, right,
so then the highlight of this add a tree,
add a boost is.
Number one, we have more than one trees.
So for from a you know.
From random Forest we have more than one
trees,
but from the tree models we have only one
tree dealing with the entire data.
And now we have list of trees.
And then we have a list of simple trees,
because every single tree there's only
one condition and a yes or No2 leaves.
That's it.
And then and then,
unlike the random forest,
we're not dealing.
All the trees are not dealing with the
same data anymore.
We build a first tree,
the second tree learning the run
prediction of the first tree,
the third tree learning from learning
from the.
The the run predictions of the second
tree then keep going.
So this is a sequential process for
random forest.
Why a lot of people still like the random
forest is because that is a really a
parallel process.
You can.
You can convert 1 data set into a list of
data set.
It can be the different trees on top of
it, so that in case you have 100 trees,
you can train the trees.
Together at the same time.
Eventually you just need to aggregate all
the results.
So then every if you want to train 100
trees,
you just need to have 100 CPU and then
you can run it at the same time.
But for adapters you cannot.
The reason is a second tree has a
dependency on the first tree.
The third tree has dependency on the
second tree,
so the the number nth tree has a
dependency on north -1 tree.
So then you cannot.
You cannot enjoy parallel processing.
You have to do this sequential
calculation, right?
But usually you have different expert and
correcting the previous trees mistakes
and then usually it could be accurate yes
or no.
So then,
so the random forest and and and add a
boost are coming from a different mindset
and different thought, right?
So then. So that's why one is begging.
Another one is boosting.
OK.
So add a boost is one method only for
classification.
And then now we're thinking, OK.
So we still have a large amount of
regression problems that we need to solve.
Can we learn from this andaboost idea and
create some regression algorithms and
then that will be a still a list of trees
for regression problems and turns out we
we can find those problems right?
So let me show you one very important
concept that is called gradient gradient
descent.
OK.
So how important is grading in descendant
really is.
When we talk about when we start talking
about the the neural network,
we're still talking about the gradient
descent,
the gradient boosting the gradient
descent, OK,
gradient descent is optimization
algorithm in machine learning.
It's definitely the the official,
the official definition.
You're gonna minimize the cost function.
I'll tell you what cost function is.
By literatively updating the model
parameters.
So then we we can enjoy model parameters.
You always heard,
you know from opening I we use a billion
of parameters and now we're really
talking about the parameters in models.
And why use a training model such a
linear regression?
So pretty much all the models you can use
gradient descent, right?
Let me show you one example that how we
actually using the gradient in descent.
Let's say we have the data. Why?
Equals 7 + 3 X and plus and the data
looks like this.
We already know the data looks like this.
We just need to find intercept 7.
And three, right.
How do we do that?
You guys can run a linear regression.
You can find a pretty accurate 7.
You can find a pretty accurate 3,
but in case let's not use a linear
regression.
Let's use this gradient descent.
How can we find it OK?
Remember, we just want to fix.
We just want to find a model that fit
this data.
So what we are trying to do is we want to
make sure.
Our prediction?
Given X is pretty close,
is very close to the actual YS right?
You give me One X. Are you gonna?
I gonna do some calculation.
I gonna give you 1 error that pretty
close to the Y that you've seen before
and then in the in the future you give me
another number I have never seen before.
I can still give you my prediction of Y.
Based upon the historical.
Accuracy, historical comparison, you know.
The generated from my model is close to
the actual Y.
You may be using the the the Y III
generate in the future.
That's the mindset, right?
So convert everything into math is we
know this SSE.
That's a summation of square error.
We know we have actual YS.
We know we have our prediction of YS.
This is.
For all of the dots,
for all of the dots here on this 2D.
Playing given different acts,
I want to minimize the difference between
my actual wise versus my predictive wise.
And I want every prediction. Great.
So that's why I stumb up all the
differences.
I.
I emphasize it even by squared on.
I sum them together.
If I mis predict one of them given a huge
error,
and they're not going to make this
summation even bigger because I'm going
to add that to other errors.
So the only way to make this summation of
square error small is I have a good
prediction for each.
For each point given different X, right?
So that's my that's sort of my.
The goal, right?
So then you know I will be estimating
estimating this seven.
You know it's actually 7,
but I'm going to call it 8.
So I'm going to call it B and then you'll
be, you know,
I'm going to predicting or guess this
number three given this data.
So I'll call it a.
So then I just plug in this my prediction
as a multiply XI plus B.
My my, my original prediction of.
A and B could be as as bad as I'm
predicting a equal to 0 and B equal to 7.
And I was saying, hey,
my prediction is all the numbers here
equal to seven across all the X.
That's my prediction.
And you know my errors will be huge
because here is going to be my error.
Here is going to be my error.
So then my error of that original 7.
7.
B. Equal to B equal to 7.
And an A equal a equal to 0. Sorry.
A equal to 0 prediction is terrible.
That's a terrible.
Guess, but let's see.
This is the function.
This is the function I'm going to
minimize, and luckily I see.
I have only one a across all the ends.
All the eyes are equal.
The one to end.
I have only one a across all the
summation of those squares I have only 1B
and I can notice that for a this is a
parabola function.
A parabola curve looks like this.
For B is also the parabola curve looks
like this.
I believe in your high school or in your
your your college calculus.
You know how to find Amb to minimize the
square. The summation of a square error,
right?
Just quick pause.
Who knows how to given a parabola,
how to find a minimum number?
So for example y = X ^2.
Looks like this.
How do you find an ax that minimize this
function?
Right.
So then what you'll be doing is you're
taking derivative and then X square to
the derivative of that is 2X and you set
the 0.
So then actually goes 0.
So then actually goes zero.
Really minimize this K.
That's exactly what we're going to do.
Instead of this, we are.
We are going to take.
A partial derivative.
So partial derivative with respect to A
and partial derivative with respect to B.
And here's a formula.
You do not have to remember those.
So the gradient descent step is is like
this.
Let's say I'm guessing the intercept.
I start from some point here.
One I'm to do is OK,
I have my intercept starting point here.
Yes, it's bad, but it's OK.
I'm going to calculate my derivative,
so derivative is telling me should I move
to here or should I move to there and
then hopefully I'm moving the right
direction because this is a minimum point
I want the dur to tell me I should be
moving this way.
And then once I move that way by a small
stop, I have a new point.
I keep moving this way and I have another
stop. I calculate derivative.
I'm still moving this way and keep moving.
And hopefully eventually I reach this.
I reach this bottom point that minimize
my error and whatever that.
A and B reached the bottom of this
function.
That is my AMB.
Let's give me the best forecast.
OK.
And and also here giving this formula we
are introducing another.
Concept is called learning rate is LR.
Learning rate.
So what is the learning rate?
The learning rate is controlling whether
I am moving.
Moving this small steps or this gigantic
steps.
So what's the what's the issue with this
big steps?
Let me show you.
If I first step, I go there,
second step I go here.
The stir stab I may not even reach the
bottom.
I may just go here.
So that's what happened.
And then we want to avoid that.
But what's the issue with a super tiny
steps?
I gonna go here and keep going.
Keep going.
You'll find that you use a super tiny
stops the the learning curve,
the learning gonna be really slow.
And after maybe so many stop,
you will eventually reach here and then
not gonna be really computationally
expensive, right?
So now let me show you one example.
No,
basically estimate is Y equal to 7 + 3 X.
OK.
I'm loading my whole space.
Gradient descent.
So I'm I'm generating data and the data
is really like y + 3 X +7 and let's say
we I'm saying that I have learning rate
of .1.
Iteration 100 times.
Every time I'm just basically calculating
the derivatives and then keep going.
So then I mean, let me just run it.
So then eventually I have my estimate of
the intercept equal to 7.1.
My estimate of the the scope is a 2.86.
So as you can see this is my.
The Theta one is my slope and this one is
my intercept estimate.
And then as you can see,
they are getting like more and more
flattened curve.
So this approaching converging to some
number, right?
You know from your mind, you know,
this number should be 7 and this number
should be 3.
But we are getting close.
And this curve is showing you from
iteration 0.
I have.
Those are the points.
I have a totally wrong prediction.
It's terrible.
And then guiding to iteration 25,
I can get in really, really good,
but since my.
Keep going.
And then my my my SSR my my squared
summation of square errors getting
smaller smaller eventually this is my
final regression line.
That one is among those regression lines.
That one is really the best.
OK.
We actually go from this this line to
this one.
This is really great.
And then and we know the final regression
line, the Theta is 7.
10 and then slope is 2 point 8486.
This this very good right?
So what we can do is let's just let's
just add this iteration to 150.
Right. So then you can see that, OK,
so there's getting not so great, right?
So there is this.
I think we just missed the final the, the,
the, the minimum point.
So then what we can do is we can change
this learn rate to .05.
So then we are just short in that
learning curve and let's see this for
comparison.
Let's still see what the iteration equal
to 100.
How does that look like?
Well, it's definitely not great.
Yeah, this is not so great.
I think you just got it diverged right.
So then let's say, oh, sorry .5,
it should be .05. Sorry,
apologize for that.
So as you can see,
it's only A-100 iterations with learning
rate .05.
The the interseb is 6.6.
You know, the original intersection is 7.
1 with alert rate .1.
So then I would say this is definitely
worse prediction with this smaller
learning rate.
So then with smaller learning rate,
you need to increase the number of
iterations.
Let's call it 200.
Right. As you can see,
we are getting close to that .
1 level with 200 leaderations.
Let me change 200 iteration to 500.
It's not getting so much better,
but it's still it's getting flattened.
I think there's no difference between
those numbers here, right?
So then you can actually change this
learning rate even smaller, smaller.
And and you can definitely learn more.
The model can definitely learn more.
Right. So you have those numbers?
So then you have this and then those
those curves that I'm showing you right.
So.
Show you.
So what gradient descent is really
telling us is.
So it just convert.
The gradient descent is really convert an
optimization problem like I was just want
to optimize this with respect to A and B
into a problem.
I can try a list of numbers.
And by, you know, the first guess,
the second guess the the third guess and
you can keep guessing and using this way
the my my guess the my guess of the those
AMB parameters of this linear function.
Is it getting closer and closer to the
real values?
So this is a really powerful concept that
you're gonna keep using it to guiding
your model closer and closer to the real
life.
So that's that's why this gradient
descent is so important and is so well
known and then widely used in a number of
machine learning and AI projects.
You you check neural network check LLM
you eventually find.
There's going to be a gradient descent.
If you do read.
The the the the structure of transformer.
Behind large language model you can
definitely see a gradient descent.
Concept there, right?
So now we're gonna cover that later.
So then how are we going to use gradient
descent here in the tree model?
So there's one model support.
Gradient boosting OK.
So this is another really powerful model
and then it's getting more and more
complex as you can see,
you definitely gonna use some mathematics
here and then we and for this example,
I definitely prepare, you know,
the Step 1 by 1.
So then we just go there, OK?
So then it's called gradient boosting.
You can definitely improve the
classification.
You can definitely improve the improve
the.
Improve the regression.
So this is a powerful models and then and
after gradient boosting, we're gonna use.
You can even talk about extreme gradient
boosting that's called Asterix boost,
right?
So then let's say let's start with some
training data, OK.
So now we're gonna talk about a lot of
core of mathematics.
Right. So then it's complex, but it's OK.
Let's go step by step, right.
So now we the only issue.
The only difficulties I learned from
learn read this are gradient boosting
paper right.
So it's it's really the index system.
It's really confusing.
So then just before we we we enter that.
So then let's just make sure that we we
we understand those index.
I have a data set in this.
This is my train data set.
So I = 1 to little N.
So what does that tell me?
Imagine that I I have 10 rows of data
where the Y is my house price.
My X is my house size and I have 10 rows
of them so that is I equal to one and N
equal to 10.
So I have 10 rows of them.
The 1st row is telling me.
How size 1000 square feet my house price
of $200,000.
That is my first pair of information,
right?
But XI can be only one number and XI can
be 3 numbers.
The XI could be OK I have.
The house size I have, number of bedrooms,
I have year built right? So then the XI.
Is representing a vector of information,
not necessarily only one number,
but YIS are usually just one number.
Either zero or one.
We're talking about classification or
just a continuous 1 using like house
price.
So then this is this little end is I are
index.
For the sample size, right?
A differentiable loss function. OK.
We can ignore that differentiable loss
function this one.
What is this function?
This function is used to compare my
prediction.
And my actual values.
It's.
This loss function is telling me.
In a quantifiable way,
how good or bad my prediction is if the
actual value is $200,
000 and I'm giving you?
200 a $199,000.
I'm only missing 1000.
That means like this loss function should
give me a number that's a pretty close to
and that's 1000 or some small number.
Right.
And and compared to a really poor
prediction saying 100,
000 that I miss half of it.
So then this loss function gonna give me
one number to tell me my prediction is
good.
Usually that's a small number and another
number to tell me my prediction is so
poor.
And usually that's a big number.
So that is this loss function is working.
Just tell me.
How good or bad my prediction is in a
quantifiable way?
OK.
Well,
no matter what loss function you're using
it.
Just tell me good or bad.
The quality of my prediction.
Number of iterations,
meaning how many iterations I'm going to
do.
I call it M.
The M could be one.
I just use one tree for all the tree
models.
The basic tree model we talk about,
you have only one tree,
the number of iterations equal to 1.
For random forest you do not have any
iteration because you're building
different trees on based upon the same
data.
Through random selection you do not have
any iteration that iteration equal to 0
for add boost.
Say in that in that example I show you 5.
Simple 5 stomps so then my iteration
equal to 5.
So then the capital M equal to five. OK.
So that is the setup.
That's the input data that we have.
We have a bunch of data we can train the
model based upon.
We define a metric that tell me how good
a bad my predictions are.
And I have another number,
meaning I how many iterations are gonna
run.
Good. Good enough to start this journey.
OK.
Any question so far?
OK.
So first up, we will give a random guess.
Well for this the gradient boost,
the guess is not so random, but if I were,
if I I ask you guys,
you have 10 rows of a house price data.
What's your guess?
If you you you don't any tree models,
what's your guess of the house price?
Just give me one number if you I ask you
to give me one number. What?
How you choose that number?
Like just guess, like a number.
Cheers, Gaz. Yep.
OK, 300,000.
Honestly, that'll work for me.
And then you. I'll,
I'll tell you know why that would work?
But if you know the term rules of of of,
of, of numbers, right, so then.
And that that actually work honestly.
But they say OK.
Let's just give the number.
Based on this,
you can ignore this math formula.
I I can tell you,
but if you know 10 price is you can give
a random number and and what other
numbers you can give.
The average.
Exactly, that's an answer I'm waiting for.
What does this formula tell us honestly?
This is a really a fancy way to say
average.
There is nothing more, nothing less.
This app 0X equal to argument summation
sign.
This is telling me.
The constant value equal to average of
all your observations.
Just ignore.
Just forget about it is a fancy formula.
Just make sure.
Make it really fancy.
Is it just an average?
I don't know why they have to put in this
way,
but keep in mind your first guess is all
is your average. That's it.
That's it.
OK, let me show you.
This is this is the first stop you gonna
come up with.
Some random number that is a constant.
And I totally agree with you.
Matt, you can give a $300,000.
That's totally fine.
That's fine with me.
But since they define this one,
this is actually a random number.
This is actually an average and then here
is a.
Here is usually how we define our our our
loss function.
Your actual your prediction.
You'll find the difference between them.
You square them.
You sum it, you sum those squares up.
And and multip by 1/2 and I always think
why we multiply by 1/2.
Let let's say let's see,
we have only two numbers.
Why? Why one and why 2 right?
So then we gonna find a gamma,
a Greek letter gamma to minimize this
function.
What we do, we we take, we take,
we take derivatives, right?
So then we saw we said the derivative
equal to 0 and solve for gamma and turns
out gamma equals average.
And to generalize it, your first guess.
Is the average,
so this is something I mentioned.
I put some words in in blue and this is
the first ever time you you see you you
start seeing those those blue words.
The first guess is the average of the
training data.
Nothing more.
You don't have to remember this fancy
formula. I proved that average.
When you have the average right.
So then you gonna start that iteration.
So now you just say, hey,
I have I this one give you another fancy
formula.
Hey,
a computer so-called a pseudo residuals
blah blah like this. OK.
So the take away is.
This very formula showing here super
fancy.
Some really fancy partial derivatives.
What I'm telling you is you.
If you want, you can read this proof.
But what I'm telling you is this proof is
telling you that you have your initial
guess.
Which is your average of the training
data.
This tab is for every training data you
just calculate the difference between
that data versus your average.
Right. And then later on you can.
For each iteration you can come up with
one guess of 1 prediction,
and for those iterations you just
basically calculate the actual value
versus.
The difference between your actual value
and your guess in that round M. OK,
so for m = 1 because your initial guess
is the average, you calculate $200,
000 minus the average of that ten data
you collected,
and and then you move to row two, the.
$180,
000 minus the average of the 1010 samples
you collected.
That's it.
You'll calculate differences so the take
away is.
We will continue calculating residuals.
Residual is statistical term.
It's basically saying that we continue
calculating differences,
which are the differences between the
actual value and the previous predictions.
Where in round one your previous
prediction is just the averages.
Is just the average of their trading data,
and later on they may not be equal to the
average of the training data,
but but every single step you're
calculating the difference.
OK.
3rd step, third step is.
Feet a base learner, a weak learner.
Close under scanning. Hmm,
acts 2 pseudo residuals IE training using
training set blah blah OK.
What does that mean?
This HMX is a fancy way to call a
decision tree.
It is nothing.
It just made the other one to generalize
this idea.
So this one is a tree.
And what we're going to do is we will be
building a tree like this.
Your data.
Your training data that acts will be
check whether or not it made the first
condition.
If you meet,
you gonna check the second condition.
If you meet, you gonna go here.
If your X data doesn't meet the first
check first condition you gonna be here.
So then I'm telling you.
Using this tree as example.
Your 10 rows of X will eventually either
in their phone in this box.
Or fall in this box.
Because the axe gonna tell you whether
first condition or second condition a yes,
no question.
You only have 3 outcomes.
Right. So then if based upon your X,
you fall into this outcome, this this,
this fancy B3 comma M gonna be your
prediction based upon that X?
So this tree is basically telling you OK.
Based upon this tree,
you will eventually have 3 predictions
and the three predictions gonna assign to
all your 10 axes that you have. OK.
So basically this step is telling you
that I need a tree and I need to generate
predictions based upon your X.
OK for example.
Leap one I bought for, for, for.
The values in here are you going to be
your residuals.
Right the your residuals.
So let's say we have 4 numbers and then
the four conditions and then 200 of -400
are going to be here.
So then my prediction of my residuals
will be just the average of those two.
And then so then my.
B1M gonna be 200 multiply 200 + -, 4,
two zero and my prediction of those two
will be -110.
And since I have only 300 here and then
my prediction of that residual IS300.
My prediction of this 400 is going to be
400.
So when you build a tree,
the prediction of each leaf is simply the
average of the values in that leaf, OK.
So you have 10 records.
Let's say you have still come back to the
house price example.
You have 10 records.
Let's say 3 records.
Going to phone here and three records in
here and four records in here.
And and we're not really putting the Ys
the house price in here.
We're we're putting the residuals in here.
So then for those 3 records end up with
this bucket,
the average of those residuals gonna be
their prediction.
Around and for those 3 records end up
being here.
The average of those residuals gonna be
their predictions for the residuals so
that I have all the residual predictions
from this decision tree.
OK.
I'm not predicting actual house price
anymore.
I'm predicting the residual of the house
price and the previous prediction.
The next step is I will update.
My prediction by adding my prediction of
residuals back to my previous prediction
and I will update my prediction.
And I'm hoping that my predictions are
always getting closer and closer to the
actual values.
Controlled by these learning rate,
if the learning rate is a big number,
I gonna go big steps.
But if the learning rate are smaller
numbers,
I gonna go small steps getting closer to
my actual values.
So the take away of this step is I'm
going to refresh my predictions and keep
the iteration running.
Let me show you one example.
Hopefully that example gonna help you
understand.
So this is the my data I start with right?
So then we have those house sizes.
That's consistent data that we we have
seen and this is my number of rooms,
this is my year built and those are my
house prices.
Remember my prediction as Matt just
mentioned will be the average of those
house prices.
As you can see,
this is really the average of those
prices is a constant value 210,732.
Same value across the board.
I will be calculating residual which is a
fancy name of saying the difference
between the actual value and my
predictions.
So that will be this number.
213,397 -, 210,
732 so that give me this number residual.
And this 275,000 -,
210 I give this number of residuals.
So this residuals along with.
My input X those are my X.
This my input X along with my residuals
going to be the input for the tree model.
I am not learning the house price anymore.
I am learning my residuals.
I am hoping to have those input
information to explain why I have such
big residual or such big difference and
why I have such small difference.
So I will build a tree.
Based upon how size number bedrooms in
your build to predict the difference
between house price and averages of those
house price,
which is the residual for round zero.
And this is my tree.
I'm saying if house size less than equal
to this number,
if it's true and if the house size is
even smaller. OK,
I gonna given this number.
-93,
000 if this bigger than a 12125 square
feet but less than 16163 square feet.
I'm gonna give this residual prediction.
If this one if this house bigger than
16163 square feet but less than equal to
23176 square feet,
I'm gonna give this 7251 as the residual.
And this so this is how you should be
reading this tree.
So then I am going to plug back those
residuals back to this table.
I have the prediction equal to one OK.
Let's see.
I have my prediction 0 equal to 210 seven
32.
That is my average of all the house
prices.
I have not my prediction 0.
The residual 1 prediction.
For this House, for example.
Sorry, not this one.
For this one, for this for this result,
right?
So then the how size is 200.
The 2126 go back to this tree.
So that is one's house size bigger than
this number 1600,
but less than this number 2324 hundred.
So then my prediction of the residual is
72151.
$51.
That is my or 52.
I drown it.
That is my residual prediction.
So I I will choose my learning rate as -1,
I will refresh my prediction one.
As my previous prediction which is
average of all house prices.
Check plus my learning rate.
Check multiply my prediction of my
residuals for this house.
Check and then this going to be my.
Prediction one.
Like this?
OK. And then I will check the 2nd house,
2459 square feet go back to my table, OK.
So this is sorry, it is.
It's a big house.
It's bigger than that.
So then my residual is a 61661 thousand
688.
I will add that in here.
And.
That's my predictions.
And and my prediction one will be
prediction zero average plus .1.
My learning rate.
Multiply this and I will update my
prediction. One will be this.
So keep going.
You can refresh all the predictions from
row one to from the top to the bottom.
The next step is you still calculate the
rescission 2, which is the house price.
Which the difference between the house
price and then your second version called
Prediction one.
But this is really a second version of
your prediction that will be this 213,
000 -, 211,000.
You have a residual 2 and keep going.
And as you can see.
My residual one for this first record is
a 2600 and now it's 1900 and this one is
64,000.
This one is 58,
000 and then this one is a sixty 960,900.
This one is 60,100,
though for those 3 records the the
residuals are kind of smaller,
meaning my prediction is getting closer
to the actual value.
But for this this this one is getting
bigger.
This is really one getting worse and this
one is also getting bigger.
The residual gets smaller residual,
getting smaller pretty much like.
Majority of them I have better prediction,
OK.
So then from the prediction one so then I
can use this residual 2 along with.
All the access here.
That will be the input data for the
second tree.
I will keep learning how I can use this
House size, number,
bedrooms and yearbu to explain the
residual 2.
I will have another tree and I will
refresh my prediction again.
I will refresh appreciation again again.
So eventually I build so many trees I can
see that.
My square error is getting job job job 2.
The bottom.
And I can see that here this House size,
those are actual values and then my my
prediction is getting closer and closer
to the actual values.
Which is.
Which is good, which is as expected,
right and and if you you you do the same
number of trees 20 but you change the
learning rate to .
05 which is half of them.
You can see, you know we are learning.
In in a shorter stab and the quality,
even with the same number of trees,
is actually the quality is worse than
higher learning rate.
So then you for for lower learning rate
you need more trees to get it converge
right?
So that eventually gonna give you pretty
good results.
So getting closer closer to you to your
actual price so.
This whole concept let me just.
Stop here and and and recall what we have
done. Right so then.
We have our initial guess, the concept,
the mindset of this gradient boosting is
we have our initial guess.
The initial guess can be, in theory,
anything.
Honestly, $300,000 is a good number,
honestly, and that's not bad.
But in this in this in this algorithm you
said OK that just use that,
just use average OK.
Let's use average.
We have a initial guess app initial guess.
And then we calculate how bad my initial
guess is to the actual values.
I want use information I collected as my
ex.
The Axis how size, number, bedrooms,
year built to explain why for some cases
I have a really bad prediction,
meaning the residual is so big.
And why some of the case I have a so
small a residuals meaning the residual is
so small.
How can they tell using the data I have
which is which because I if I figured
that out I can tell what is the factor
driving high house price with a factor
driving the low house price right?
So then we are using the information to
explain the difference.
The bad quality of my first ever gas and
then I I learn from it.
I learn from what you know the my my
failures, right.
I learn from the failures.
I get better.
I give you another prediction.
I then compare my prediction to the
actual values.
It won't be perfect.
I still get some of them are getting good,
some are getting bad.
So then I relearn it is really like how
you got yourself improved.
You go to gym, right?
So then the first thing you feel oh so
tired. And then and then you, you you,
you recover first gym and the second day
you get stronger.
The third day you get stronger to
whatever person you want to build
yourself to.
Right.
So there's a sort of a similar mindset.
You know, the first thing gonna be tough.
It won't be perfect.
And then you know how uncomfortable that
first day is.
You learn from it.
You getting better.
You get prepared for the second day,
1/3 day a fourth day,
and then that's really the the, the, the,
the,
the mindset of this gradient boosting.
And Y gradient gradient is really where
we're taking the derivative.
And here and this is some part of a
derivative and that derivative.
For this example,
turns to be the difference.
And that is really helping us because
what we use the derivative already.
The same concept we use in in gradient
descent, but in this very example,
based upon our definition of a loss
function, it's just a simple difference.
So that's really helping us and that's
really good, right.
That's why we have this gradient boosting
in plain English.
Start with the first guess.
You calculate the mistakes you build,
make the tree to fix the mistakes and you
update your your your prediction and you
repeat the progress.
That's how we work.
That's literally how it works.
I I think it's good because you're you're
always learn from your mistakes and then
you're getting better.
This is a gradient boosting.
Any questions?
Alright,
so last model we will be talking about is
called extra boost.
I will skip a lot of slides about
actually boost you.
Feel free to read them.
Spend two or three hours and do the
calculate calculus.
You figured out everything, so let me see.
So let's just take a step back, right?
So then what is an ideal model we want,
right?
So the ideal model is.
This one.
This one is basically a loss function.
The ideal model is it should be accurate.
It should be accurate.
That's that's why we are building models
and this one is telling us it's a
regularization term.
It's basically telling us it cannot be
super complicated.
You cannot have like.
Adapt equal to 100.
That kind of tree.
It should be somewhat simple.
Well, not overly complex.
That's what we want.
We want an accurate model. We hold.
The model is not super complex and if
this complex and then it's easy,
it's prone to to overfitting,
so that we really hope that we can
penalize this complexity of this model
where if you recall.
In grading, boosting, we didn't do that.
Is it possible that for grading boosting
we can?
We can over fit it,
but for Adda boost we do not have this
overfitting problem.
The reason is right.
We're just building stumps and stumps,
has only adaptive code of one and two
outcome.
For random forest, yeah.
So we definitely may be overfitting
because we have no control over each tree
building upon that bootstrapping data set
OK.
So the goal is we want to have an
accurate model.
The goal is we hope the model is not
super complex and then we should penalize
the complexity of the model.
That's why we make some definition of
this of this object,
and then we will optimize the object by
choosing.
The tree by.
Thoughtfully,
thoroughly defining or designing the tree.
So I'm just saying, say, OK,
I'm gonna assume good, all right.
Next up, we got to skip.
We just go through this tab our our
entire gradient boosting tree is we have
the first guess,
we we we learn from first guess and we
get the first guess better.
We have the second guess and then we
learn from the difference between the
second guess and the.
Actual we make the second guess.
That is our third guess and we keep going.
This process is basically telling you
that I build new gas based upon my
previous gas.
That's what we do.
That's literally we do.
And then there are some tailor expansion.
I'm going to skip that.
It's going to skip.
So then eventually from this data we
found a way.
Dad, you know what?
There is a way to define a good tree that
is falling.
This weight is going from formula
eventually end up with some formula.
I'm going to skip this is not important
and and and this is the way how you go
from the root node to the left node and
the right hand.
Run right hand side node.
Just basically following his formula
Complex I understand.
So that's why I'm gonna ignore and this
entire progress is called extra boost.
This is based upon one paper published in
2016,
and if you're interested in that I can
send you the paper.
But what does it mean for us?
What does it mean for us?
You can ignore all of this.
So then they actually define a concept
called gain.
And turns out the game concept is super
easy.
Even though we have gone through the
entire complex math, however,
this game concept is so easy it's
literally like this.
No matter how you split a tree,
whatever residuals in this left hand side
tree I've done sum of them up and square
it and divide the number of record in
this left hand side tree and plus my
Lambda which is my my regularization.
Penalty factor.
And I going to sum up all the residuals
in the right hand side tree and square it
divided by the total number of the
residuals fall in this tree.
That will be my gang.
What is the best way of building the
extra booster tree is to maximize this
game.
This is one example.
Remember we have this table.
We have our first cast.
We have our residuals and then this is
one example we use for the gradient
boosting right.
So let's say the house size bigger than
2000.
That means this one bigger than 2000.
I'll put this residual on the left hand
side and let's say yes,
yes and then say yeah, there's no. OK,
I put a residual here.
There's a two house and a 400.
Is bigger than 2000.
How poor is residual here?
So then whenever I have a house size
bigger than 2000,
I put those residuals here left inside
the summation of those residuals is this
big number and how many residuals I have
in this left hand side note I have a one
to 10, I have a 10.
Of them.
Similarly,
if those house size lower than 2000.
Lower than 2000 square feet I just put in
here and I have a negative number.
I have five of those.
Record the formula is I have this
summation.
I ^2 it.
Divide by a total number of records in
here and I define my Lambda equal to 1.
I divide by 11.
I have a this number and then the the
gain of the right hand side.
I have this number.
I calculate the gain of the root is a
zero. I put everything to formula.
I have this.
And turns out that is not the split way
that give me the biggest again,
which is this.
So that's it.
So then you can just split the the data
by doing this game.
By doing this condition how size bigger
than 1663 that's it.
So and keep going can split the data and
then you can build a tree boost tree.
Not not super hard.
And here's a comparison between X tree
boost gradient boosting and random forest.
The reason I'm comparing those.
Because you can actually build.
Regression and classification model based
upon those three method, right?
So as I just talk about.
Attributes extra boost a gradient boost
and there are sequential models and
random forest is one of them that you can
do parallel processing right?
So usually extra boot is really fast.
Because the optimization I you know
there's some optimization behind the
scene.
You can definitely dive into the math and
then and figure it out yourself.
Everything is.
All you need is in slide to figure this
out.
You don't need anything for your homework
at all.
And a good news.
Of attributes is a really low overfitting
risk.
However, this is integrity,
so the way the way how you interpret the
tree is also lower since it's more
complex.
So there are some pro and cons and you
can have to read after class extra boost
and gradient boost and random forest,
right?
So those are the really top three,
top three ensemble tree.
Models that pretty much all machine
learning and machine learning engineers
are using,
and a lot of data scientists are prefer.
They do prefer those of three different.
The decision tree model.
Ensemble Decision tree model.
There's another branch of this gradient
boosting.
It's called live gpm.
The live gradient boosting machines.
There's also another pretty popular model
that.
Getting more powerful light.
Gvm.
So there's another powerful model on top
of this gradient boosting model.
So so light gradient boosting machine.
So those are,
that's a really powerful tool that a lot
of people use and then develop them by by
the Microsoft data scientist group.
So all of this.
I'm telling to you is this is one table
you may want to spend some time to read
to understand the pros and cons of
different models and then through the
slides you understand.
Random Forest based upon a lot of trees
on bootstrapping data set gradients,
boost and extra boost is really learning
the errors.
The residuals from the previous tree.
That's it.
And the actual implementation.
In the actual implementation,
you don't need to use all those concept.
Luckily,
the data scientist coders already
incorporate those into the actual codes.
Right. So.
Me just quickly show you the code and
then I think we're we're done.
For for today's class.
So for example, like the gradient boost.
What? OK,
so this is really talking about gradient
boost. I think that's good.
Sorry,
I just for actually actually boosting.
So you literally just need to install
this extra boost library and import is
actually actually boosting regressor or
classifier, and that's how you use it.
You just define input data, train data,
the features you want to train based upon,
and then your target and you just plug
you just.
Enter in here.
And you want to fit.
The axe.
You wanna fit the axe as your input
features.
How size, number, bedrooms,
year built and then your target and you
can define a tree and you get a
prediction.
All we covered.
In our slides are just basically coded
behind those 3 lines of code.
I I think I think they're doing great job.
So then we don't have to go line by line
to recall ourselves.
You can just literally call this function
and and that's it.
Right,
but the learning rate for this one is so
high in this one and then you can
definitely change those parameters and
then we can we can have one another
sometime to cover all different
parameters under those decision tree.
And then that'll be next time.
So we gonna cover some examples using
those three tree models and then we can
start talking about the next family of
models.
OK, I think that'll be it for today.
Any questions?
I know there's a lot.
But eventually, you know, you,
you you just need to remember differences
of the tree model,
ensemble tree models and pros.
And that's it.
You don't have to memorize those math
behind scene,
but if you wanna know why the pros are
really pros and cons and really cons,
the math will help you to understand
those.
And and math are actually in those slides
and kind of always open and have some fun.
Drink some beer and do some math if you
want.
All right. If that's the case, I mean,
we're done for today.
Thank you.
Yeah. Thank you.
Thank you.
Hopefully you enjoy that.
Thanks professor.
Thank you.
Appreciated.